# MODEL1111240001: Huthmacher2010_HumanErythrocyte_MetabolicNetwork

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1111240001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1111240001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**Antimalarial drug targets in Plasmodium falciparum predicted by st age-specific metabolic network analysis.**   
Huthmacher C, Hoppe A, Bulik S, Holzhütter HG. _BMC Syst Biol._ 2010 Aug
31;4:120. [20807400](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20807400) ,  
**Abstract:**   
BACKGROUND: Despite enormous efforts to combat malaria the disease still
afflicts up to half a billion people each year of which more than one million
die. Currently no appro ved vaccine is available and resistances to
antimalarials are widely spread. Henc e, new antimalarial drugs are urgently
needed. RESULTS: Here, we present a computational analysis of the metabolism
of Plasmodium falcipa rum, the deadliest malaria pathogen. We assembled a
compartmentalized metabolic m odel and predicted life cycle stage specific
metabolism with the help of a flux b alance approach that integrates gene
expression data. Predicted metabolite exchan ges between parasite and host
were found to be in good accordance with experiment al findings when the
parasite's metabolic network was embedded into that of its h ost
(erythrocyte). Knock-out simulations identified 307 indispensable metabolic r
eactions within the parasite. 35 out of 57 experimentally demonstrated
essential enzymes were recovered and another 16 enzymes, if additionally the
assumption was made that nutrient uptake from the host cell is limited and all
reactions cataly zed by the inhibited enzyme are blocked. This predicted set
of putative drug targ ets, shown to be enriched with true targets by a factor
of at least 2.75, was fur ther analyzed with respect to homology to human
enzymes, functional similarity to therapeutic targets in other organisms and
their predicted potency for prophylax is and disease treatment. CONCLUSIONS:
The results suggest that the set of essential enzymes predicted by our flux
balan ce approach represents a promising starting point for further drug
development.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


